# Web3 Real Reviews

Online reviews cannot be trusted. Let's solve this with blockchains!

## Introduction

This project is a set of smart contracts which provide a protocol to create and 
publish reviews on Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) compatible blockchains.

The main purpose is to solve the _trust issue_ we have with current online reviews.

## Problem

Web2 gave the opportunity to consumers to share their experiences on so-called 
social media and collaborative platforms. People leave reviews about everything:
products, places, companies...etc. 

It was great until bots and spams took the lead. Nowadays, at least 30% of online 
reviews are _fakes_ (see [source here](https://cbsaustin.com/news/local/up-to-30-of-online-reviews-are-fake-and-most-consumers-cant-tell-the-difference)).

This situation becomes unstainable and it will just get worst with the rise of 
generative AI.


Current, web2 solutions are specialized websites where users can share reviews, 
such as TripAdvisor, AirBnb..etc. This model has strong limitations. First, users
need to create an account on each sites. Secondly, reviews are moderated and can 
be removed anytime.

Users do not **own their account** neither they **own their content**. 

More importantly, visitors have no way **to check if a user review is legit**. 
Accounts can be fake and reviews can be generated by the product owner or third 
party services. 

## Solution

Web3 offers solutions to overcome every limitation of the Web2 online review systems.

* Web3 users own their account - if they own their private keys (e.g. non-custodial wallets).
* Web3 users own their content - because it is tied with their wallet/address.
* Web3 users can verify authenticity and ownership - if the blockchain used for review is public.

We will implement a Non-Fungible Token (NFT) ERC-721 Token Contract to create **Reviews**.

A Review includes: 

* Anique token ID
* Transaction ID (e.g. or Order ID from the sellers's database)
* Seller address
* Consumer address (e.g. owner of the NFT)
* Date
* URL to NFT metadata (e.g. link to an IPFS JSON ressource)

The IPFS storage network will hold additional data to describe the review. Users
could for instance add links to pictures, contact info, more dates, barcode...etc.

## Impact

Deploying an online review system on a public blockchain - such as the Ethereum network -
has many positive impacts. It will bring value to the world, as follow:

* **Decentralization** - at the heart of blockchains - ensure that no reviews can be altered/edited.
* **Privacy** through anonymous wallet addresses give the liberty to share real/relevant feedback.
* **Future-proof** because content (e.g. reviews, score...etc) will remain available _forever_.

A few KPIs that we could use to measure the impact of this web3 project are:

* **Total** reviews by product: demonstrating the real popularity of a given item.
* **Score**: using a common rating scale will allow to compare and sort items even between different sectors/industries/platforms.
